Readme.md, before:

This branch is used to develop the **UEFI Redfish Feature**. The code base of development is based on the release of **edk2-stable201811** tag.

The branch owner:
Fu Siyuan <siyuan.fu@intel.com>, Ye Ting <ting.ye@intel.com>, Wang Fan <fan.wang@intel.com>, Wu Jiaxin <jiaxin.wu@intel.com>

## Introduction
UEFI Redfish is an efficient and secure solution for end users to remote control and configure UEFI pre-OS environment by leveraging the RESTful API.  It's simple for end users to access the data from UEFI firmware defined in JSON format.

One of the design goals for UEFI Redfish solution is to provide a scalable implementation which allow users to easily add/remove/modify each independent Redfish configure features (RedfishBiosDxe & RedfishBootInfoDxe). This is done by extracting the generic logic to a single UEFI driver model driver (RedfishConfigDxe), and several library instances (DxeRedfishLib & BaseJsonLib).

#### Supported Features
  * Protocols
    * EFI RestEx Service Binding Protocol
    * EFI RestEx Protocol
    * Redfish ConfigHandler Protocol
    * Redfish Credential Protocol

  * Configuration Items via UEFI Redfish
    * [ISCSI Boot Keywords](http://www.uefi.org/confignamespace).
    * HII Opcodes/Questions marked with REST_SYTLE flag or in REST_SYTLE formset.
    * BootOrder/BootNext variables.

  * Redfish Schemas
    * [AttributeRegistry](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/AttributeRegistry.v1_1_0.json)
    * [ComputerSystemCollection](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/ComputerSystemCollection.json)
    * [ComputerSystem](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/ComputerSystem.v1_5_0.json)
    * [Bios](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/Bios.v1_0_2.json)
    * [BootOptionCollection](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/BootOptionCollection.json)
    * [BootOption](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/BootOption.v1_0_0.json)

    If any additional Redfish Schema or a new version of above Schemas are required to be supported, please send the email to edk2-devel mailing list by following [edk2-satging process](https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-staging).

#### Related Modules
  The following modules are related to UEFI Redfish solution, **RedfishPkg** is the new package to support UEFI Redfish solution:
  * **RedfishPkg\RestExDxe\RestExDxe.inf** - UEFI driver to enable standardized RESTful access to resources from UEFI environment.

  * **RedfishPkg\Library\DxeRedfishLib** - Library to Create/Read/Update/Delete (CRUD) resources and provide basic query abilities by using [URI/RedPath](https://github.com/DMTF/libredfish).

  * **RedfishPkg\Library\BaseJsonLib** - Library to encode/decode JSON data.

  * **RedfishPkg\RedfishConfigDxe\RedfishConfigDxe.inf** - UEFI driver to execute registered Redfish Configuration Handlers:

    * **RedfishPkg\Features\RedfishBiosDxe\RedfishBiosDxe.inf** - DXE driver to register Redfish configuration handler to process "Bios" schema and "AttributeRegistry" schema.

    * **RedfishPkg\Features\Features\RedfishBootInfoDxe\RedfishBootInfoDxe.inf** - DXE driver to register Redfish configuration handler to process Boot property defined in "ComputerSystem" schema.

  * Platform Components for NT32:
    * **Nt32Pkg\RedfishPlatformDxe\RedfishPlatformDxe.inf** - UEFI sample platform driver for NT32 to fill the SMBIOS table 42 and publish Redfish Credential info.

    * **Nt32Pkg\Application\RedfishPlatformConfig\RedfishPlatformConfig.inf** - UEFI application for NT32 to publish Redfish Host Interface Record.

  * Misc
   * BaseTools - VfrCompile changes to support Rest Style Formset/Flag.

   * MdePkg - Headers related to Rest Style Formset/Flag.

   * MdeModulePkg - Extract more general APIs in UefiHiiLib & DxeHttpLib & DxeNetLib.

   * NetworkPkg -  1) UefiPxeBcDxe & HttpBootDxe: Consume new APIs defined in DxeHttpLib & DxeNetLib. 2) HttpDxe: Cross-Subnet support. 3) IScsiDxe: REST Style FORMSET support.

   * Nt32Pkg - 1) Enable UEFI Redfish feature in NT32 platform. 2) Fix TLS build error with CryptoPkg from edk2-stable201811 tag.


## Promote to edk2 Trunk
If a subset feature or a bug fix in this staging branch could meet below requirement, it could be promoted to edk2 trunk and removed from this staging branch:
* Meet all edk2 required quality criteria.
* Support both IA32 and X64 Platform.
* Ready for product integration.

## Timeline
| Time | Event | Related Modules |
|:----:|:-----:|:--------------:|
| 2019.01 | Initial open source release of UEFI Redfish feature. | Refer to "Related Modules" |
|...|...|...|

## Related Materials
1. DSP0270 - Redfish Host Interface Specification, 1.0.1

2. DSP0266 - Redfish Scalable Platforms Management API Specification, 1.5.0

3. UEFI Configuration Namespace Registry - http://www.uefi.org/confignamespace

4. Redfish Schemas - https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/

5. UEFI Specification - http://uefi.org/specifications

Commit message:

Add explaination about how to deliver FW authentication information to UEFI Redfish

Readme.md, after:

This branch is used to develop the **UEFI Redfish Feature**. The code base of development is based on the release of **edk2-stable201811** tag.

The branch owner:
Fu Siyuan <siyuan.fu@intel.com>, Ye Ting <ting.ye@intel.com>, Wang Fan <fan.wang@intel.com>, Wu Jiaxin <jiaxin.wu@intel.com>

## Introduction
UEFI Redfish is an efficient and secure solution for end users to remote control and configure UEFI pre-OS environment by leveraging the RESTful API.  It's simple for end users to access the data from UEFI firmware defined in JSON format.

One of the design goals for UEFI Redfish solution is to provide a scalable implementation which allow users to easily add/remove/modify each independent Redfish configure features (RedfishBiosDxe & RedfishBootInfoDxe). This is done by extracting the generic logic to a single UEFI driver model driver (RedfishConfigDxe), and several library instances (DxeRedfishLib & BaseJsonLib).

#### Supported Features
  * Protocols
    * EFI RestEx Service Binding Protocol
    * EFI RestEx Protocol
    * Redfish ConfigHandler Protocol
    * Redfish Credential Protocol

  * Configuration Items via UEFI Redfish
    * [ISCSI Boot Keywords](http://www.uefi.org/confignamespace).
    * HII Opcodes/Questions marked with REST_SYTLE flag or in REST_SYTLE formset.
    * BootOrder/BootNext variables.

  * Redfish Schemas
    * [AttributeRegistry](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/AttributeRegistry.v1_1_0.json)
    * [ComputerSystemCollection](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/ComputerSystemCollection.json)
    * [ComputerSystem](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/ComputerSystem.v1_5_0.json)
    * [Bios](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/Bios.v1_0_2.json)
    * [BootOptionCollection](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/BootOptionCollection.json)
    * [BootOption](https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/BootOption.v1_0_0.json)

    If any additional Redfish Schema or a new version of above Schemas are required to be supported, please send the email to edk2-devel mailing list by following [edk2-satging process](https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-staging).

#### Related Modules
  The following modules are related to UEFI Redfish solution, **RedfishPkg** is the new package to support UEFI Redfish solution:
  * **RedfishPkg\RestExDxe\RestExDxe.inf** - UEFI driver to enable standardized RESTful access to resources from UEFI environment.

  * **RedfishPkg\Library\DxeRedfishLib** - Library to Create/Read/Update/Delete (CRUD) resources and provide basic query abilities by using [URI/RedPath](https://github.com/DMTF/libredfish).

  * **RedfishPkg\Library\BaseJsonLib** - Library to encode/decode JSON data.

  * **RedfishPkg\RedfishConfigDxe\RedfishConfigDxe.inf** - UEFI driver to execute registered Redfish Configuration Handlers:

    * **RedfishPkg\Features\RedfishBiosDxe\RedfishBiosDxe.inf** - DXE driver to register Redfish configuration handler to process "Bios" schema and "AttributeRegistry" schema.

    * **RedfishPkg\Features\Features\RedfishBootInfoDxe\RedfishBootInfoDxe.inf** - DXE driver to register Redfish configuration handler to process Boot property defined in "ComputerSystem" schema.

  * Platform Components for NT32:
    * **Nt32Pkg\RedfishPlatformDxe\RedfishPlatformDxe.inf** - UEFI sample platform driver for NT32 to fill the SMBIOS table 42 and publish Redfish Credential info.

    * **Nt32Pkg\Application\RedfishPlatformConfig\RedfishPlatformConfig.inf** - UEFI application for NT32 to publish Redfish Host Interface Record.

  * Misc
   * BaseTools - VfrCompile changes to support Rest Style Formset/Flag.

   * MdePkg - Headers related to Rest Style Formset/Flag.

   * MdeModulePkg - Extract more general APIs in UefiHiiLib & DxeHttpLib & DxeNetLib.

   * NetworkPkg -  1) UefiPxeBcDxe & HttpBootDxe: Consume new APIs defined in DxeHttpLib & DxeNetLib. 2) HttpDxe: Cross-Subnet support. 3) IScsiDxe: REST Style FORMSET support.

   * Nt32Pkg - 1) Enable UEFI Redfish feature in NT32 platform. 2) Fix TLS build error with CryptoPkg from edk2-stable201811 tag.

## Delivery of FW authentication information to UEFI Redfish
The platform using this Redfish solution need to have a platform driver to install Redfish Credential Protocol (see RedfishPkg/Include/Protocol/RedfishCredential.h) to allow UEFI firmware to get firmware-BMC authentication credential for use, instead of using the “RedfishFWCredentials” variable defined in DSP0270, in order to avoid storing the firmware-BMC authentication credential into any insecure storage. 

The EFI_REDFISH_CREDENTIAL_PROTOCOL.StopService() is defined to notify BMC Redfish service to stop provide configuration service to this platform. This interface shall be called when the platform is about to leave an safe UEFI environment. Upon receiving such notification, the BMC shall stop providing the authentication credential to UEFI firmware, close all existing Redfish session with the original credential, and reject any further Redfish login request from UEFI firmware until next platform reset.

## Promote to edk2 Trunk
If a subset feature or a bug fix in this staging branch could meet below requirement, it could be promoted to edk2 trunk and removed from this staging branch:
* Meet all edk2 required quality criteria.
* Support both IA32 and X64 Platform.
* Ready for product integration.

## Timeline
| Time | Event | Related Modules |
|:----:|:-----:|:--------------:|
| 2019.01 | Initial open source release of UEFI Redfish feature. | Refer to "Related Modules" |
|...|...|...|

## Related Materials
1. DSP0270 - Redfish Host Interface Specification, 1.0.1

2. DSP0266 - Redfish Scalable Platforms Management API Specification, 1.5.0

3. UEFI Configuration Namespace Registry - http://www.uefi.org/confignamespace

4. Redfish Schemas - https://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/

5. UEFI Specification - http://uefi.org/specifications
